https://hackr.io/blog/angular-interview-questions

What is Angular?
    Angular is a TypeScript-based open-source web application framework, 
    developed and maintained by Google. It offers an easy and powerful way of 
    building front end web-based applications.

Advantages:
    Follows the MVC pattern architecture
    Two-way binding
    Supports dependency injection, RESTful services, and validations
Disadvantages:
    Complex SPAs can be inconvenient and laggy to use due to their size
    Dynamic applications do not always perform well

How to generate a class/service/component in Angular 7 using CLI?
    ng generate class Dummy [options]
    ng g s Dummy
    ng g c Dummy

Could you explain services in Angular?
    Singleton objects in Angular that get instantiated only once during the lifetime of an 
    application are called services. An Angular service contains methods that maintain the 
    data throughout the life of an application.

What is string interpolation in Angular?
    Also referred to as moustache syntax, string interpolation in Angular refers to a special 
    type of syntax that makes use of template expressions in order to display the component data
    ex: {{object.name}}

Can you explain the concept of scope hierarchy in Angular?
    In a scope hierarchy, each view has its own $scope. Hence, the variables set by a view’s view 
    (child scope) controller will remain hidden to other view controllers.

What are directives in Angular?
    Directives are one of the core features of Angular. They allow an Angular developer to write 
    new, application-specific HTML syntax. In actual, directives are functions that are executed 
    by the Angular compiler when the same finds them in the DOM. Directives are of three types:

    Attribute Directives:
        ngClass
        ngStyle
    Component Directives: w.e
    Structural Directives:
        *ngIf
        *ngFor
        *ngSwitch


What is the point of Subscribe and Observables?
    Observables are declarative—that is, you define a function for publishing values, 
    but it is not executed until a consumer subscribes to it. The subscribed consumer then 
    receives notifications until the function completes, or until they unsubscribe.

    OBSERVABLES ARE FUNCTIONS YOU CREATE TO PASS DATA WHEN A CONSUMER TRIGGERS AN EVENT 
    WHICH MAKES THEM SUBSCRIBE. THE CONSUMER RECEIVES NOTIFS UNTIL FXN IS COMPLETE OR THEY UNSUBSCRIBE